# WalletWise 
    #### Video Demo:  
    #### Description:

    My final project is a budgeting app. It lets the user create, manage, display and delete balances, incomes and expenses to track their funds over time.

    #### Distinctiveness and Complexity:
    This project is unique, because its about budgeting, which was not one of the topics covered by any of the previous projects. 
    The users are not interacting with each other but are only interacting with the website, unlike in the commerce, mail and network projects. 
    
    The project is complex because of the level of sophistication of its underlying database and routing. There are five different models, all constantly working together to result in the simplified tracking of budgets for the user. There are 23 Views in the main views file, there are another 13 in a separate viewsHelpers file and there is a total of 23 different urls on the app.  

    #### Files:
    There are almost no additional files in this application. One of them is "viewsHelpers.py" which contains a collection of functions that are then importet into the views file to be used there. This is done to increase readability and compactness of the views file. Instead of going through the whole procedure of getting form data, a function from viewshelpers is called, greatly decreasing the amount of code present in the views file. This is also done for creating objects,getting certain objects, editing certain objects and, in one case, handling redirects from a form. The second one is the "test.py". It is used to check the database integrety and run some tests in a test environment, whenever there is a commit to the repository on github. For this to work, another file, "django.yml", is needed. It handles the github workflow that eventuall runs the previously mentioned tests. It does this on three builds of the application, using python 3.7, 3.8 and 3.9 respectively. This way I get notified by Github via email, immediately after one of my com,mit unexpectedly breaks the database and i can fix it or do rollbacks if need be. 

    #### How to run:
    There are no additional python packages, other than django, that need to be installed for this app to work, so startig it is just like any other django app. Once you have started the application, you will be prompted to login or signup. Since you dont alrady have an account, you will sign up. Once youre signed up and logged in, you will get prompted to create your first dashboard. You will be promted to "Enter new Balance". This balance is where your incomes go to and your expenses get subtracted from. You can add multiple balances to organize, for example if you have multiple bank accounts or if you also want to track your balance on different platform(eg. PayPal). After entering your Balance(s), you have the option to enter any incomes. In the destination field, enter the destination of your income(which of your earlier defined balances it goes into). Additionally, you can check the "Reoccuring Income" Checkbox in case your income is reoccuring monthly. In that case it will automatically get added to your balance every month. After you are done with your incomes, you can do the same for any expenses. 
    After that, you are officially done with the setup process!
    The dashboard shows your your current total funds across all of your balances. It also displays your total income and expenses this month. At the bottom, you have the option to add new expenses/Incomes or Balances. You can also transfer funds from one balance to the other, which will just create an expense in one and an income in the other balance. The second thing you can do on your dashboard is to look at either balances, incomes or expenses in depth. To do this, you just click the correlating Button at the bottom.
    You will have all balances/incomes/expenses listed, with their correlating amounts and the option to look at "more". This will take you to an in depth page, containing the description(for incomes and expenses) and the option to edit the name(for balances) or the whole thing(incomes/expenses). The in depth page for an individual balance shows all incomes/expenses that are going into or coming out of that balance, showing their dates and amounts, as well as the total overall change of that balance in the current month. At the top of each in depth page, there is the option to rotate between months, to display older values from past months. 

    Finally, in the "Account" section, found in the pages navbar, you can set the default destination for all incomes/expenses in case the majority or all of them go through the same balance. When filled out, whenever a new income/expense is created, the destination field will be prefilled with the default destination, saving you that extra bit of time.  

